Tools you may find useful for the last practical exercise WP4. 

(0) How to get the RMSD between each conformation of a trajectory and 
    a reference conformation?

    The program VMD installed in your computer has built in analysis
    tools that can compute the RMSD of a trajectory using the first 
    structure as a reference state. 

    To do this Bernhard Knapp, who will join us for the day provided these "HowTo" instructions:

    To be able to visualize any created trajectory of atom configuration one can use the 
    program VMD [1]. This software should already be installed on your computer.

    To visualize for example the trajectory of a riboswitch fragment studied in WP4 use 
    the following procedure:
       - vmd 2cky_j124.pos.pdb or open this file in VMD "File"->"New Molecule"->"Browse"
       - By using the slider in the main window of VMD you can inspect all single 
         frames of the trajectory.
       - We can use the RMSD (root mean square deviation) trajectory tool to investigate 
         how severe the structural changes during our simulation were.
       - Click on "Extensions" -> "Analysis" -> "RMSD Trajectory Tool"
       - In the text field in the upper left corner replace the word "protein" by "all"
       - Make sure that the checkbox with "Plot" is activated.
       - Press the "RMSD" button
       - VMD opens a new window where you can see how the single configurations 
         differ from the first configuration by means of their mean distance in 
         euclidean space.
       - For further analysis of the RMSD values you can save the numeric values 
         by activating the checkbox "Save". A *.dat file will be written which contains 
         the single RMSD values for further evaluations.

    [1] Link http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd/     

(1) How to get the RMSD distribution for a trajectory?

    The RMSD distribution is simply visualizes the most favorable states visited 
    in your simulation by peaks at the corresponding RMSD positions. 

    Assuming that you have saved your RMSD trajectory, you could calculate an RMSD 
    distribution by running the script "dist.pl" provided in this directory.

(2) How to get an ENERGY vs. RMSD plot. Simply plot the energies of visited states 
    as a function of their RMSD distance from the initial structure. This plot is 
    very indicative about the nature of the energy function that is provided for 
    the simulation. Note, that the ENERGY vs. RMSD plot is not indicative of the 
    correctness of our sampling or optimization algorithms. We could do perfectly 
    rigorous optimization/simulation on any energy function but the interpretation of the 
    results and their relevance to real physical phenomena depends on the energy
    function. That the reason why structural modelling software has various energy
    function options.  

(3) Renumbering residues. By default MOSAICS renumbers the residues in the initial pdb
    file. When using "region" based natural moves and one would like to start the simulation
    from the last output file, we have to renumber residues the same way it was provided
    in the pdb. To do this you can use the script: renumber_residues.pl in this directory. 
